---
title: 'Chen Qijia CV'
date: 2025-02-06
permalink: /cv/
tags:
  - cv
  - profile
---

Chen Qijia  
University of Helsinki  
Department of Computer Science  
Email: [qijia.chen@helsinki.fi](mailto:qijia.chen@helsinki.fi)

## Summary

My research lies at the intersection of computer science, design, and social science studies. My primary focus is in Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), Virtual Reality (VR), and Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW), dedicating my efforts to understanding and improving interactive media, especially in the contexts of marginalization, accessibility, and harassment. Beyond these focused areas, I maintain a strong interest in the broader field of digital technology, continuously seeking to explore and contribute to advancements in this ever-evolving domain.

## Education

- **University of Helsinki** (1/2022&ndash;Present)  
  PhD in Human Computer Interaction  
  Advisor: Giulio Jacucci  
  PhD Committee: Pan Hui (Hong Kong University of Science and Technology); Indre Zliobaite (University of Helsinki)
- **Max Planck Institute for Security and Privacy** (2/2025&ndash;5/2025)  
  Visiting Scholar  
  Advisor: Abraham Mhaidli
- **The Hong Kong Polytechnic University** (8/2020&ndash;9/2021)  
  Master Degree in Interaction Design  
  Advisor: Jeffrey C. F. Ho
- **Chongqing University** (9/2015&ndash;6/2019)  
  Bachelor Degree in Product Design  
  Bachelor Degree in Law

## Publications

- (In submission) Beyond Voice: Investigating 'Mute' User Interactions in Social Virtual Reality. Chen, Qijia; Bellucci, Andrea; Jacucci, Giulio. *Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction (CSCW 2026).*
- (In submission) Understanding Newcomer Integration in Social VR. Chen, Qijia; Bellucci, Andrea; Jacucci, Giulio. *Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction (CSCW 2026).*
- Understanding "Mutes" in Social Virtual Reality. Chen, Qijia; Bellucci, Andrea; Cai, Jie; Nelimarkka, Matti; Jacucci, Giulio. *Proceedings of the 2025 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '25).* Best Paper Honorable Mention.
- Democratic Moderation: Exploring the Use and Perception of Votekicking in Social Virtual Reality. Chen, Qijia; Wu, Qunfang; Jacucci, Giulio. *Proceedings of the 2025 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '25).*
- Investigating the Use and Perception of Blocking Feature in Social Virtual Reality Space. Chen, Qijia; Bellucci, Andrea; Jacucci, Giulio. *Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction (CSCW 2025).*
- Mirror Dwellers in Social VR: Investigating Reasons and Perception of Mirror Watching. Chen, Qijia; Mousavi, S. Mahed; Riccardi, Giuseppe; Jacucci, Giulio. *Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction (CSCW 2025).*
- Understanding Phantom Tactile Sensation on Social Virtual Reality Platforms. Chen, Qijia; Spape, Michiel; Jacucci, Giulio. *Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction (CSCW 2024).*
- "I'd Rather Drink in VRChat": Understanding Drinking in Social Virtual Reality. Chen, Qijia; Bellucci, Andrea; Jacucci, Giulio. *Proceedings of the 2024 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '24).*
- "People Are Way Too Obsessed With Rank": Trust System in Social Virtual Reality. Chen, Qijia; Cai, Jie; Jacucci, Giulio. *Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW) 2024.*
- "I Felt Everyone Was a Streamer": An Empirical Study on What Makes Avatar Collective Streaming Engaging. Chen, Qijia; Gan, Jingwen; Bellucci, Andrea; Jacucci, Giulio. *Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction (CSCW 2024).*

## Ongoing Research

- **The Impact of Data Collection Disclosure on User Experience and Sense of Presence in Virtual Reality**  
  Through controlled experiments with varying levels of data collection transparency, the study explores psychological trade-offs between privacy awareness and immersive experience in VR environments. Chen, Qijia; Sophia Kim Bertoni; Andrea Bellucci; Abraham Mhaidli.
- **Participatory Design of Conversational Agents for Resilience & Safety in XR**  
  A personalized safety agent co-designed with experts to enhance VR users' sense of safety in online environments. The LLM-based agent will be embedded into real VR scenarios for evaluation. Chen, Qijia et al.

## Teaching Experience

- Fall 2023: Teaching assistant for Giulio Jacucci, CSM13403, Seminar on Advanced Topics in Human Computer Interaction.
- Mentoring graduate thesis for Robert Pulkka, "A Critical Look at Metaverse Technologies and Applications."

## Service

- Reviewer for ACM CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI); ACM Conference on Designing Interactive Systems (DIS); Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction (CSCW); Nordic Conference on Human-Computer Interaction (NordiCHI); Frontiers in Virtual Reality; IEEE Virtual Reality Conference; ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI); Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences (HICSS).

## Media

- Article "'I'd Rather Drink in VRChat': Understanding Drinking in Social Virtual Reality" featured by ITMedia, Japan's largest tech news outlet (5/2024).
